Troubleshooting the
“index out of range” Error
Inspecting line 24 of our exploit,
we notice that it uses the split method
in order to slice the string
stored in the location parameter
passed to the parse_csrf_token function.
The Python documentation for split
indicates that this method
slices the input string
using an optional separator
passed as a first argument.
The string slices returned by split
are then stored in a Python List object
that can be accessed via an index
In our exploit code,
the string separator is defined
as the csrf_param variable
followed by the equals sign:
In order to better understand
the IndexError,
we can add a print statement in the
parse_csrf_token function
before the return instruction
The exploit now displays the full string
before the split method is invoked:
The exploit code expected the
input string to contain “c”,
defined in the csrf_param variable
But we received _sk_
from the web application.
At this point we do not fully understand
why this is happening.
Perhaps there is a version mismatch
between the exploit developer’s software and ours,
or a CMS configuration mismatch.
Either way,
exploit development is
never straight-forward.
Nevertheless, we can try to change
the csrf_param variable
from __c to _sk_ in order
to match the CMS response
Now, let’s execute the modified exploit:
The error is no longer displayed
and we are presented with a message
informing us that the exploit has succeeded.
Although we don’t clearly understand
why we needed to change
the csrf_param variable from “c” to “sk”,
this presented a great opportunity to
adapt to unexpected situations,
something great penetration
testers do very well.
Now, we can validate the exploit
by attaching to the php shell
with a tool like curl and supplying a
system command to serve as the payload:
Nice.
The exploit was successful.
We have a web shell.